installation/requirements/hadoop-requirements.md, before:

# DataRobot Hadoop Integration Requirements

DataRobot is installable as a parcel that can run on your organization's
Hadoop cluster.

DataRobot can integrate with Cloudera, and Hortonworks Hadoop distributions.

**NOTE**: DataRobot supports only parcels as a format of software distribution for a Cloudera Hadoop cluster.
Deployment via system specific packages (RPM, DEB, etc.) is not supported.

## Access Requirements

The administrator must have permission to access the Cloudera or Ambari Manager
via SSH and perform superuser actions such as moving files, installing packages,
changing permissions, and restarting services.

## Hadoop Requirements

* For Java 8 systems, Oracle Java JDK version greater than or equal to
`1.8.0_60` must be installed.
* HDFS, Yarn, Spark on Yarn, and ZooKeeper must be installed.
* The fully qualified domain name (FQDN) or IP address of the Cloudera or Ambari
Manager server must be known.
* The /tmp directory on the Cloudera or Ambari Manager must be writable and have
at least 5GB of available space.
* If [Transparent Encryption in HDFS](http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/stable/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/TransparentEncryption.html) is enabled, [HttpFS](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/stable/hadoop-kms/index.html) is required.

## Hadoop Recommendations

* Using a protected YARN queue for DataRobot will prevent preemption of containers, thus providing greater performance and stability.
* Enabling ZooKeeper High Availability (HA) will significantly improve DataRobot stability.

### Memory and Compute Requirements

* Set `yarn.nodemanager.resource.memory-mb` to at least 60GB.
* Set `yarn.scheduler.maximum-allocation-mb` to at least 60GB.
* Set `yarn.nodemanager.resource.cpu-vcores` to at least 4 vcores.
* Set `yarn.scheduler.maximum-allocation-vcores` to at least 4 vcores.
* DataRobot worker nodes must have a minimum of 128GB of memory.

### Hadoop Container Requirements

| Container name | Max Instances allowed | Persistent count | vCores per instance | Memory per instance (GB) | Long Running | Notes |
|----------------|:---------------------:|:----------------:|:-------------------:|:------------------------:|:------------:|-------|
|DataRobot Master YARN AM|1|1|1|2|Y|Required|
|Modeling containers|8|0|4|60|N|Required|
|EDA containers|8|0|2|60|N|Required|
|DSS container|8|0|1|.004|N|Only required if DataRobot Master Yarn Quick Worker is not used|
|Next Steps container|8|0|1|.002|N|Only required if DataRobot Master Yarn Quick Worker is not used|
|DataRobot Master|NA|2|2|4|Y|Taking the role of different DSS and next steps tasks.| 

#### Optional Scalable Ingest Requirements

| Container name | Max Instances allowed | Persistent count | vCores per instance | Memory per instance (GB) | Long Running | Notes |
|----------------|:---------------------:|:----------------:|:-------------------:|:------------------------:|:------------:|-------|
|ETL Controller|NA|1|1|1|Y|A lightweight service running outside of YARN: Track status/health of the services, Provide REST API to ETL services, Dataset type & format recognition.|
|ETL Quick Workers Spark Application|NA|1|11|18 (across all containers)|Y|Submits new spark jobs for Fast EDA, ingest of small Avro and Parquet files & other low-latency jobs.|
|ETL Default Worker Daemon|NA|1|1|1|Y|A new Spark app is dynamically created that submits and manages the qualifying ingest/downsampling in a new Yarn app per job request.|
|ETL Default Worker Spark Application|NA|0|26|77 (across all containers)|N|Executes jobs submitted to ETL Default Worker Daemon|


| Instance / Service name | ETL Default Worker Resources requirements | ETL Quick Workers Instance Requirements |
|-------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
|Service requirements|1GB of RAM|NA|
|Spark Application Master requirements|1GB of RAM + 1 CPU core|1GB of RAM + 1 CPU core|
|Spark Driver requirements|2GB of RAM + 1 CPU core|3GB of RAM + 1 CPU core|
|Spark Executor requirements|3GB of RAM + 2 CPU core|3GB of RAM + 2 YARN CPU cores|

## Cloudera Requirements

* Cloudera CDH must be version 5.4 or greater.
* Cloudera cluster must be running on CentOS/RHEL version 6.4 or greater on the X86_64 Architecture.

### Required files

| Description | Filename | Notes |
|:------------|:---------|:------|
| Hadoop Parcel | `DataRobot-4.2.x-el7.parcel` *or* `DataRobot-4.2.x-el6.parcel` | Use the file with **el7** for CentOS/RHEL 7.x. Use the file with **el6** for CentOS/RHEL 6.4. |
| Hadoop Parcel Checksum | `DataRobot-4.2.x-el7.parcel.sha` *or* `DataRobot-4.2.x-el6.parcel.sha` | Use the file with **el7** for CentOS/RHEL 7.x. Use the file with **el6** for CentOS/RHEL 6.4. |
| Custom Service Descriptor (CSD) | DataRobot-4.2.x.jar | Configuration files used to integrate DataRobot with Cloudera. |

## Ambari Requirements

* If your cluster is based on Hortonworks, it must be version 2.3, 2.4, 2.5 or 2.6.
* Ambari cluster must be running on CentOS/RHEL version 6.4 or greater on the X86_64 Architecture.

### Required files

| Description | Filename | Notes |
|:------------|:---------|:------|
| Hadoop Parcel | `DataRobot-4.2.x-el7.parcel` | |
| Hadoop Parcel Checksum | `DataRobot-4.2.x-el7.parcel.sha` | |
| Service Descriptor | datarobot-ambari-4.2.x.tar.gz | Configuration files used to integrate DataRobot with Ambari. |

Commit message:

Update to say DataRobot can't run with Sentry (#134)

installation/requirements/hadoop-requirements.md, after:

# DataRobot Hadoop Integration Requirements

DataRobot is installable as a parcel that can run on your organization's
Hadoop cluster.

DataRobot can integrate with Cloudera, and Hortonworks Hadoop distributions.

**NOTE**: DataRobot supports only parcels as a format of software distribution for a Cloudera Hadoop cluster.
Deployment via system specific packages (RPM, DEB, etc.) is not supported.

DataRobot is not supported on Hadoop clusters that use Sentry security because Sentry does not allow impersonation.

## Access Requirements

The administrator must have permission to access the Cloudera or Ambari Manager
via SSH and perform superuser actions such as moving files, installing packages,
changing permissions, and restarting services.

## Hadoop Requirements

* For Java 8 systems, Oracle Java JDK version greater than or equal to
`1.8.0_60` must be installed.
* HDFS, Yarn, Spark on Yarn, and ZooKeeper must be installed.
* The fully qualified domain name (FQDN) or IP address of the Cloudera or Ambari
Manager server must be known.
* The /tmp directory on the Cloudera or Ambari Manager must be writable and have
at least 5GB of available space.
* If [Transparent Encryption in HDFS](http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/stable/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/TransparentEncryption.html) is enabled, [HttpFS](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/stable/hadoop-kms/index.html) is required.

## Hadoop Recommendations

* Using a protected YARN queue for DataRobot will prevent preemption of containers, thus providing greater performance and stability.
* Enabling ZooKeeper High Availability (HA) will significantly improve DataRobot stability.

### Memory and Compute Requirements

* Set `yarn.nodemanager.resource.memory-mb` to at least 60GB.
* Set `yarn.scheduler.maximum-allocation-mb` to at least 60GB.
* Set `yarn.nodemanager.resource.cpu-vcores` to at least 4 vcores.
* Set `yarn.scheduler.maximum-allocation-vcores` to at least 4 vcores.
* DataRobot worker nodes must have a minimum of 128GB of memory.

### Hadoop Container Requirements

| Container name | Max Instances allowed | Persistent count | vCores per instance | Memory per instance (GB) | Long Running | Notes |
|----------------|:---------------------:|:----------------:|:-------------------:|:------------------------:|:------------:|-------|
|DataRobot Master YARN AM|1|1|1|2|Y|Required|
|Modeling containers|8|0|4|60|N|Required|
|EDA containers|8|0|2|60|N|Required|
|DSS container|8|0|1|.004|N|Only required if DataRobot Master Yarn Quick Worker is not used|
|Next Steps container|8|0|1|.002|N|Only required if DataRobot Master Yarn Quick Worker is not used|
|DataRobot Master|NA|2|2|4|Y|Taking the role of different DSS and next steps tasks.| 

#### Optional Scalable Ingest Requirements

| Container name | Max Instances allowed | Persistent count | vCores per instance | Memory per instance (GB) | Long Running | Notes |
|----------------|:---------------------:|:----------------:|:-------------------:|:------------------------:|:------------:|-------|
|ETL Controller|NA|1|1|1|Y|A lightweight service running outside of YARN: Track status/health of the services, Provide REST API to ETL services, Dataset type & format recognition.|
|ETL Quick Workers Spark Application|NA|1|11|18 (across all containers)|Y|Submits new spark jobs for Fast EDA, ingest of small Avro and Parquet files & other low-latency jobs.|
|ETL Default Worker Daemon|NA|1|1|1|Y|A new Spark app is dynamically created that submits and manages the qualifying ingest/downsampling in a new Yarn app per job request.|
|ETL Default Worker Spark Application|NA|0|26|77 (across all containers)|N|Executes jobs submitted to ETL Default Worker Daemon|


| Instance / Service name | ETL Default Worker Resources requirements | ETL Quick Workers Instance Requirements |
|-------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
|Service requirements|1GB of RAM|NA|
|Spark Application Master requirements|1GB of RAM + 1 CPU core|1GB of RAM + 1 CPU core|
|Spark Driver requirements|2GB of RAM + 1 CPU core|3GB of RAM + 1 CPU core|
|Spark Executor requirements|3GB of RAM + 2 CPU core|3GB of RAM + 2 YARN CPU cores|

## Cloudera Requirements

* Cloudera CDH must be version 5.4 or greater.
* Cloudera cluster must be running on CentOS/RHEL version 6.4 or greater on the X86_64 Architecture.

### Required files

| Description | Filename | Notes |
|:------------|:---------|:------|
| Hadoop Parcel | `DataRobot-4.2.x-el7.parcel` *or* `DataRobot-4.2.x-el6.parcel` | Use the file with **el7** for CentOS/RHEL 7.x. Use the file with **el6** for CentOS/RHEL 6.4. |
| Hadoop Parcel Checksum | `DataRobot-4.2.x-el7.parcel.sha` *or* `DataRobot-4.2.x-el6.parcel.sha` | Use the file with **el7** for CentOS/RHEL 7.x. Use the file with **el6** for CentOS/RHEL 6.4. |
| Custom Service Descriptor (CSD) | DataRobot-4.2.x.jar | Configuration files used to integrate DataRobot with Cloudera. |

## Ambari Requirements

* If your cluster is based on Hortonworks, it must be version 2.3, 2.4, 2.5 or 2.6.
* Ambari cluster must be running on CentOS/RHEL version 6.4 or greater on the X86_64 Architecture.

### Required files

| Description | Filename | Notes |
|:------------|:---------|:------|
| Hadoop Parcel | `DataRobot-4.2.x-el7.parcel` | |
| Hadoop Parcel Checksum | `DataRobot-4.2.x-el7.parcel.sha` | |
| Service Descriptor | datarobot-ambari-4.2.x.tar.gz | Configuration files used to integrate DataRobot with Ambari. |
